guys Jamie's table is all about
celebrating amazing fresh ideas
throughout the year at Woolies I'm gonna
give you some amazing recipes that are
fresh delicious and will save you cash
so come on guys let's get cooking
hi there I'm Toby paddock chef
and an all made of Jamie Oliver and
today we're gonna cook and save with a
gross tomato and bread soup the
difference with this soup is that we're
actually gonna roast off the tomatoes to
caramelize all the natural sugar in
there which gives a beautiful flavor
profile to this dish but before we do
that you're gonna need
Australian Trust tomatoes red onions a
fresh bunch of basil some garlic
vegetable stock and a freshly baked loaf
of ciabatta that you guys can get in
store click here to get a full copy of
the recipe and to add all the
ingredients to your shopping trolley for
when you shop online first job slice 2
kilos of tomatoes in half and pop them
flesh side up into a baking tray cut two
Spanish onions into quarter we'll do the
same for the second one you can take
these onions now and pick them up just
kind of scatter them around on top of
the tomatoes take half a head of garlic
sort of 7 or 8 cloves it's gonna take
the palm of my hand and really squash
those down we'll put these directly into
the tray as well with the tomatoes and
they're gonna roast in the oven in the
shell which was kind of a really cool
little trick you'll see what happens
after they come out just kind of
distribute them around pretty evenly
next I'm gonna season with some sea salt
cracked pepper
some dried oregano and then one a good
healthy leg of extra-virgin olive oil
this goes straight in the oven for 50
minutes to 1 hour these have been
cooking for about 50 minutes and as you
can see the tomatoes have really
softened the garlic soft and those
onions are beautiful soft as well the
garlic trick I was talking about before
is exactly this you can pretty much pop
that beautiful soft garlic flesh
straight out into here once you've got
those out you can discard the skin and
take a wooden spoon and pour all of
these ingredients into a nice soup pot
or a large stockpot add your stock
straight into the pot and put this on a
medium heat next we're gonna add some
basil to this you can just sort of take
about half a bunch at the stalk to bring
loads of flavor into there now for the
hero that ciabatta only use half of this
to put in the soup and for the other
half we can actually make some crostini
which is like giant croutons and you can
just kind of really tear into this bring
this up to a boil over a high heat and
immediately reduced to a low heat a
quick word to the wise on this dish
because of the bread content in here
this is a really thick soup and as such
it can actually burn quite quickly so
you do need to keep an eye on it and
stir from time to time
once it's simmering away we'll keep that
going for 10 minutes while the soup is
ticking away we can use the rest of this
bread here to make some crostini which
is Italian for large crouton which is
French for large piece of toasted bread
so remove the label it's gonna slice
that on the diagonal but you can slice
it any way you wish I'm doing about a
centimeter thick and we'll take the
griddle pan
and do this over a high heat this soups
been taking away for about 10 minutes
and the breads really softening up into
there we are going to season with a tiny
little splash of red wine vinegar which
just gives a beautiful acidity to there
just keep an eye on the bread it will
Brown up really really quickly while we
have a moment we can start to blitz this
soup up you can kind of blitz it to an
absolute puree if you like but I like
there to be a little bit of texture in
there job done a little bit of basil on
top of there a little splash of
extra-virgin olive oil and there we have
it
roast tomato and bread soup with a
crostini served on the side now if you
like that click here to subscribe to our
YouTube channel and explore all our
other videos all ingredients can be
purchased at your local Woolies and
online by clicking here and for more
information on jamie's table click here
you